# Development Guide

## Environment

To get a development environment up and running, first ensure the following are installed:

1. go
2. mage
3. yarn
4. docker

Then run the following in **different terminals**:

1. Build the front-end and listen for javascript changes:

```bash
yarn dev
```

1. Build the back-end, inject it into a docker image, and run it alongside a Haxall server:

```bash
mage -v && docker-compose -f docker-compose_dev.yaml up
```

## Usage

Create a new data source and select "Haystack". If no Docker configuration has been edited, the Haystack API is available at
`http://haxall:8080/api/`, with the username `su` and password `su`. Click "Save and Test" and make sure that it is
working.

Create a new dashboard and panel, and use this axon query to test the connection:

```
[{ts: now()-1hr, v0: 0}, {ts: now(), v0: 10}].toGrid
```

Note that if your grid's first column is a date-time you can use it with the timeseries chart.
Otherwise, nearly every Axon query can be visualized using the table view.

# Release

To trigger a new release of the plugin, we need to push a version tag to github. This can be
achieved with the following steps:

1. Fill out changelog and merge
1. Run `npm version <major|minor|patch>`
1. Run `git push origin main --follow-tags`
1. Navigate to the GitHub releases page, and follow the instructions in the new draft release.
1. Before submitting the plugin in Grafana Cloud, edit the release and make it public.
1. Submit the plugin

---

Below is the original readme generated by Grafana

# Grafana data source plugin template

This template is a starting point for building a Data Source Plugin for Grafana.

## What are Grafana data source plugins?

Grafana supports a wide range of data sources, including Prometheus, MySQL, and even Datadog. There’s a good chance you can already visualize metrics from the systems you have set up. In some cases, though, you already have an in-house metrics solution that you’d like to add to your Grafana dashboards. Grafana Data Source Plugins enables integrating such solutions with Grafana.

## Getting started

### Backend

1. Update [Grafana plugin SDK for Go](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/developers/plugins/backend/grafana-plugin-sdk-for-go/) dependency to the latest minor version:

   ```bash
   go get -u github.com/grafana/grafana-plugin-sdk-go
   go mod tidy
   ```

2. Build backend plugin binaries for Linux, Windows and Darwin:

   ```bash
   mage -v
   ```

3. List all available Mage targets for additional commands:

   ```bash
   mage -l
   ```

### Frontend

1. Install dependencies

   ```bash
   yarn install
   ```

2. Build plugin in development mode and run in watch mode

   ```bash
   yarn dev
   ```

3. Build plugin in production mode

   ```bash
   yarn build
   ```

4. Run the tests (using Jest)

   ```bash
   # Runs the tests and watches for changes, requires git init first
   yarn test

   # Exists after running all the tests
   yarn test:ci
   ```

5. Spin up a Grafana instance and run the plugin inside it (using Docker)

   ```bash
   yarn server
   ```

6. Run the E2E tests (using Cypress)

   ```bash
   # Spin up a Grafana instance first that we tests against
   yarn server

   # Start the tests
   yarn e2e
   ```

7. Run the linter

   ```bash
   yarn lint

   # or

   yarn lint:fix
   ```

# Distributing your plugin

When distributing a Grafana plugin either within the community or privately the plugin must be signed so the Grafana application can verify its authenticity. This can be done with the `@grafana/sign-plugin` package.

_Note: It's not necessary to sign a plugin during development. The docker development environment that is scaffolded with `@grafana/create-plugin` caters for running the plugin without a signature._

## Initial steps

Before signing a plugin please read the Grafana [plugin publishing and signing criteria](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/developers/plugins/publishing-and-signing-criteria/) documentation carefully.

`@grafana/create-plugin` has added the necessary commands and workflows to make signing and distributing a plugin via the grafana plugins catalog as straightforward as possible.

Before signing a plugin for the first time please consult the Grafana [plugin signature levels](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/developers/plugins/sign-a-plugin/#plugin-signature-levels) documentation to understand the differences between the types of signature level.

1. Create a [Grafana Cloud account](https://grafana.com/signup).
2. Make sure that the first part of the plugin ID matches the slug of your Grafana Cloud account.
   - _You can find the plugin ID in the plugin.json file inside your plugin directory. For example, if your account slug is `acmecorp`, you need to prefix the plugin ID with `acmecorp-`._
3. Create a Grafana Cloud API key with the `PluginPublisher` role.
4. Keep a record of this API key as it will be required for signing a plugin

## Signing a plugin

### Using Github actions release workflow

If the plugin is using the github actions supplied with `@grafana/create-plugin` signing a plugin is included out of the box. The [release workflow](./.github/workflows/release.yml) can prepare everything to make submitting your plugin to Grafana as easy as possible. Before being able to sign the plugin however a secret needs adding to the Github repository.

1. Please navigate to "settings > secrets > actions" within your repo to create secrets.
2. Click "New repository secret"
3. Name the secret "GRAFANA_API_KEY"
4. Paste your Grafana Cloud API key in the Secret field
5. Click "Add secret"

#### Push a version tag

To trigger the workflow we need to push a version tag to github. This can be achieved with the following steps:

1. Run `npm version <major|minor|patch>`
2. Run `git push origin main --follow-tags`

## Learn more

Below you can find source code for existing app plugins and other related documentation.

- [Basic data source plugin example](https://github.com/grafana/grafana-plugin-examples/tree/master/examples/datasource-basic#readme)
- [Plugin.json documentation](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/developers/plugins/metadata/)
- [How to sign a plugin?](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/developers/plugins/sign-a-plugin/)
